## Introduction

Antibodies' therapeutic potential is demonstrated by their status as a broad class of effective agents across autoimmune diseases, infection, and cancer. Their versatility is enabled through an antibody’s selectivity toward target antigen, as determined by its variable region, and ability to elicit effector cell responses, dependent upon the composition of its constant Fc region. Antibodies of the IgG type direct effector response by binding to the FcγR family of receptors. FcγR activation is driven by multiple IgG clustering the receptors. Depending upon the configuration of receptors, this interaction may promote or prevent effector response.Thus, the mechanism of FcγR activation ensures that multiple IgG are present whenever eliciting effector response.

One capability elicited by effector cells is clearance of infected or otherwise pathogenic cells. Clearance can occur through two functionally distinct mechanisms: antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) or antibody-dependent cell-mediated phagocytosis (ADCP). However, both mechanisms are (1) regulated by the family of FcγRs present on effector cells, (2) modulated by the identity of the Fc region present on an IgG [@pmid:16322460], (3) performed by multiple cell types [@Biburger:11; @Montalvao:13], and (4) influenced by properties of antigen engagement [@bakalar_size-dependent_2018; @Tang2815]. This multilayered complexity is a central challenge to engineering antibodies with desirable cell-killing functions, as well as understanding successful and dysregulated endogenous immunity. Our team recently demonstrated that a multivalent binding model of immune complex (IC—IgG-antigen complex) binding to FcγRs accurately captured and could predict *in vitro* binding across various IgG isotypes [@pmid:29960887]. Further, it could accurately predict antibody-elicited tumor cell killing *in vivo* across antibodies of varied isotype, glycosylation status, and FcγR knockout animals [@pmid:29960887]. Directly quantifying and predicting cell clearance made it possible to accurately predict and optimize for antibody-mediated cell clearance regardless of whether it occurred by ADCC or ADCP.

Endogenous antibody responses universally involve Fc of diverse isotype and glycosylation in combination. *The central hypothesis of our proposal is that antibodies of different Fc composition, but identical antigen binding, can have properties other than the additive combination of either alone.* A consequence of this is that, within a mixture, minor species (e.g., glycosylation variant) can have an outsized effect promoting or preventing cell killing. Even when recombinantly manufacturing a single monoclonal therapeutic agent, heterogeneity exists in the glycosylation forms derived [@pmid:26775146; @pmid:18050193]. Knowledge of how these different forms influence the behavior of one another would allow one to increase or reduce cell killing by adjusting the mixture of glycosylation forms. This would also help guide evaluation of biosimilars by determining whether glycosylation forms present at small fractions might influence overall therapeutic efficacy. On the side of the effector cells involved in mediating therapeutic antibody dependent effects, it has become clear that in addition to NK cells (expressing only one activating FcγR (FcγRIIIA), tissue resident macrophages and bone marrow derived monocytes participate in cytotoxic antibody dependent target cell clearance. In contrast to NK cells, these myeloid cell subsets express all activating (excepting inflammatory monocytes lacking human (h)FcγRIIIA or mouse (m)FcγRIV) and the inhibitory FcγRIIB. Thus, mixed IC may trigger all or specific subsets of activating/inhibitory FcRs, resulting in a further complexity. Despite the ability of multiple activating FcRs on myeloid effector cells our previous studies have demonstrated that individual IgG subclasses, such as mIgG2a/2c for example, may mediate their activity through select activating FcγRs despite their capacity to bind to other activating FcRs [@pmid:16322460].

Here, we build upon our earlier model development in two key ways. First, we evaluate the ability of a multi-valent binding model to predict effector cell-elicited clearance across a panel of disease models. Second, we extend our multivalent binding model to hetero-valent immune complex mixtures. This demonstrates the generality of modeling effector response through a mechanistic binding model, and enables predictions for polyclonal antibody responses.
