## Results

### A multivalent binding model quantifies potential for synergy in immune complex binding

![**A multivalent binding model quantifies potential for synergy in immune complex binding.** A) Schematic of the multivalent binding model. B) Schematic of how synergy or antagonism is calculated from binding predictions. C) Example of predicted synergy in IC. D) Example of predicted synergy in cMO activity. E) Grid of calculated synergy quantities for all pairs of IgG with murine cMO. F) Calculated synergy values with changes in IC concentration. Each point represents an individual IgG pair. Receptor expression assumed to be that measured for murine cMO. G) Calculated synergy values with variation in IC valency. Conditions match those used in (F). H) Calculated synergy values with proportional variation in receptor expression. Conditions match those used in (F).](./output/figureB1.svg "Figure 1"){#fig:bindingS width="100%"}

To model the effects of polyclonal antibody responses, we extended a simple, equilibrium binding model we previously used to model antibody effector response [@pmid:29960887]. Briefly, immune complexes are assumed to bind to FcγRs on the cell surface with monovalent binding kinetics, and then can engage additional receptors with a propensity proportional to their affinity ([@fig:bindingS]A). This model then enables us to predict the binding outcome for immune complexes formed from mixtures of antibodies, and ask whether these mixtures have distinct properties from either single-antibody complex ([@fig:bindingS]B). We defined synergy or antagonism in the mixture's effects as a difference from the additive combination of each single antibody case.

With this model, we could identify predicted cases of synergistic or antagonistic binding or predicted effector response in effector cells ([@fig:bindingS]D/E). Responses generally deviated from additivity at higher concentrations and valency of immune complexes ([@fig:bindingS]F/G). This trend is consistent with the observation that non-additive interactions do not arise in the limit of small amounts of receptor binding (TODO). As expected, we observed little effect of proportional variation in receptor abundance ([@fig:bindingS]H). In total, this expanded model of antibody-FcγR interaction allows us to predict whether antibodies might have similar or distinct effects when present in combination.

### Synergy in effector response need not arise through synergy in binding

![**ITP regression.** A) XXX. B) & E) Quantified platelet depletion in a murine ITP model with matched conditions of FcγR knockout and Fc domain composition; each schematic uses an exponential or gompertz survival mode respectively. The R^2 values are determined through directly predicting the depletion (devar), and predicting the depletion through cross-validation (cevar). C) & F) Quantified cell activities with each survival mode. D) & G) Target cell depletion cleared by cell type with each survival mode. Different IgG subclasses induced target cell depletion to varying extents.](./output/figureB2.svg "Figure 2"){#fig:ITP width="100%"}

### IC binding predicts effector-elicited platelet, CD20, and melanoma cell depletion

![**Cancer regression.** IC binding predicts effector-elicited platelet, CD20, and melanoma cell depletion. A) Schematic of earlier IgG subclass experiments (top) and our approach (bottom). B) & E) Quantified target cell depletion in matched conditions of FcγR knockout and Fc domain composition; each schematic uses an exponential or gompertz survival mode respectively. The R^2 values are determined through directly predicting the depletion (devar), and predicting the depletion through cross-validation (cevar). C) & F) Quantified cell activities with each survival mode. D) & G) Target cell depletion cleared by cell type with each survival mode. Different IgG subclasses induced target cell depletion to varying extents.](./output/figureB3.svg "Figure 3"){#fig:fig3 width="100%"}

### Differences in cell population model dependencies

![**Anti CD20 regression.** A) XXX. B) & E) Quantified target cell depletion in bone marrow through an anti-CD20 model in matched conditions of FcγR knockout and Fc domain composition; each schematic uses an exponential or gompertz survival mode respectively. The R^2 values are determined through directly predicting the depletion (devar), and predicting the depletion through cross-validation (cevar). C) & F) Quantified cell activities with each survival mode in bone marrow D) & G) Target cell depletion cleared by cell type with each survival mode in bone marrow. Different IgG subclasses induced target cell depletion to varying extents. H) & K) Quantified target cell depletion in blood through an anti-CD20 model in matched conditions of FcγR knockout and Fc domain composition. Conditions match those in (B) & (E). I) & L) Quantified cell activities with each survival mode in blood. C1q is also included in the activity plot. J) & M) Target cell depletion cleared by cell type with each survival mode in blood. Different IgG subclasses induced target cell depletion to varying extents.](./output/figureB4.svg "Figure 4"){#fig:fig4 width="100%"}

### HIV model

![**HIV regression.** A) XXX. B) & E) Quantified target viral depletion through an HIV model in matched conditions of FcγR knockout and Fc domain composition; each schematic uses an exponential or gompertz survival mode respectively. The R^2 values are determined through directly predicting the depletion (devar), and predicting the depletion through cross-validation (cevar). C) & F) Quantified cell activities with each survival mode. D) & G) Target viral depletion cleared by cell type with each survival mode. Different IgG subclasses induced target viral depletion to varying extents.](./output/figureB5.svg "Figure 5"){#fig:fig5 width="100%"}


