## Methods

### Data and Software Availability

All analysis was implemented in Julia, and can be found at <https://github.com/meyer-lab/FcgR.jl>.

### Generalized multi-ligand, multi-receptor multivalent binding model

To model polyclonal antibody immune complexes (ICs), we extended our previous binding model to account for ICs of mixed IgG composition [@pmid:29960887].

We define $N_L$ as the number of distinct monomer Fcs, $N_R$ the number of FcRs, and the association constant of monovalent Fc-FcR binding between Fc $i$ and FcR $j$ as $K_{a,ij}$. Multivalent binding interactions after the initial interaction have an association constant of $K_x^* K_{a,ij}$, proportional to their corresponding monovalent affinity. The concentration of complexes is $L_0$, and the complexes consist of random ligand monomer assortments according to their relative proportion. The proportion of ligand $i$ in all monomers is $C_i$. By this setup, we know $\sum_{i=1}^{N_L} C_i = 1$. $R_{\mathrm{tot},i}$ is the total number of receptor $i$ expressed on the cell surface, and $R_{\mathrm{eq},i}$ the number of unbound receptors $i$ on a cell at the equilibrium state during the ligand complex-receptor interaction.

The binding configuration at the equilibrium state between an individual complex and a cell expressing various receptors can be described as a vector $\mathbf{q} = (q_{1,0}, q_{1,1}, ..., q_{1,N_R}, q_{2,0},..., q_{2,N_R},q_{3,0},..., q_{N_L, N_R})$ of length $N_L(N_R+1)$, where $q_{i,j}$ is the number of ligand $i$ bound to receptor $j$, and $q_{i,0}$ is the number of unbound ligand $i$ on that complex in this configuration. The sum of elements in $\mathbf{q}$ is equal to $f$ , the effective avidity. For all $i$ in $\{1,2,..., N_L\}$, let $φ_{i,j} = R_{\mathrm{eq},j} K_{a,ij} K_x^* C_i$ when $j$ is in $\{1,2,...,N_R\}$, and $φ_{i,0} = C_i$. The relative amount of complexes in the configuration described by $\mathbf{q}$ at equilibrium is

{% raw %}
$$v_{\mathbf{q},eq} = \binom{f}{\mathbf{q}} \frac{L_0}{K_x^* } \prod_{i=1\\ j=0}^{i=N_L\\ j=N_R}{{φ_{ij}}^{q_{ij}}},$$
{% endraw %}

with $\binom{f}{\mathbf{q}}$ being the multinomial coefficient. Then the total relative amount of bound receptor type $n$ at equilibrium is

{% raw %}
$$ R_{\mathrm{bound},n} = \frac{L_0 f}{K_x^* } \sum_{m=0}^{N_L}φ_{mn} \left(\sum_{i=1\\ j=0}^{i=N_L\\ j=N_R}{{φ_{ij}}^{q_{ij}}}\right)^{f-1} .$$
{% endraw %}

By conservation of mass, we know that $R_{\mathrm{tot},n} = R_{\mathrm{eq},n} + R_{\mathrm{bound},n}$ for each receptor type $n$, while $R_{\mathrm{bound},n}$ is a function of $R_{\mathrm{eq},n}$. Therefore, each $R_{\mathrm{eq},n}$ can be solved numerically from its $R_{\mathrm{tot},n}$ measured experimentally. Similarly, the total relative amount of complexes bind to at least one receptor on the cell is

{% raw %}
$$ L_{\mathrm{bound}} = \frac{L_0}{K_x^* } \left [\left(\sum_{i=1\\ j=0}^{i=N_L\\ j=N_R}{{φ_{ij}}^{q_{ij}}}\right)^f -1 \right] .$$
{% endraw %}

FcRs are activated through crosslinking. The amount of each kind of receptor in a multimerized complex can be calculated as

{% raw %}
$$R_{\mathrm{multi},n} = \frac{L_0 f}{K_x^* } \sum_{m=0}^{N_L}φ_{mn} \left[\left(\sum_{i=1\\ j=0}^{i=N_L\\ j=N_R}{{φ_{ij}}^{q_{ij}}}\right)^{f-1}-1 \right] .$$
{% endraw %}

### In-Vivo Regression

### Additivity Model

We define synergy in the different IgG mixtures' effects as differences from the additive combination of each single antibody case. Synergy can be calculated for depletion in the disease model types, the activity of a specified cell type, or simple binding to the cell. Synergy is calculated given a set of parameters specifying whether the species of interest is human or murine, the IC concentration ($L_0$), valency (f), and the identity of the two IgGs of interest. For the case of activity in murine ncMOs, murine would be set to true and Cellidx would be set to 1. Kav, a matrix of association constants for IgGs and Fc receptors, is imported to be used in the binding model. Unless a specific Fc receptor is specified in RecepIdx, FcExpr is set to the average expression of the cell type. 

Once the parameters have been obtained, we must calculate the predicted single IgG responses (D1 and D2) as well as the additive and mixture responses (output). The single drug responses are the predicted cell activities caused by a dose of a single specified IgG with an IC concentration of $L_0$. Because the binding model returns a single value of activity of the cell at a given IC concentration, it must be iterated over an array of IC concentrations in order to produce the single drug curve. The binding model is called one hundred times with an $L_0$ increasing from 0 to $L_0$. The mixed drug response, however, stays at a contant $L_0$ but changes in the ratio of IgG makeup.

For activity, the additive curve is found by adding the two single drug response curves. A value for synergy can then be determined by finding the area between the additive curve and the predicted mixture curve by numerical integration. This process is then repeated for all IgG combinations and with each cell type.

When considering depletion rather than activity, activity is calculated as described previously but must then correspond to a depletion for each disease type. Fit parameters obtained from the regression of the disease model must be provided to obtain this depletion. The single and mixed drug activity curves are then fed into an exponential survival model along with the fit parameters. This converts the activity responses to depletion responses. The additive line in this case would not be the addition of each single drug depletion, as this could then exceed 100% depletion; the predicted activities must be added before being fed into the exponential survival model. Synergy remain as the area between the additive depletion and the predicted mixture depletion.
