The advancements in this model provide us with a larger foundation to analyze antibody induced cell-effector function in more complex and biologically relevant scenarios. Allowing for the possibility of hetero-valent immune complexes allows us to analyze more than just monoclonal antibody treatments. Even in these treatments, the glycosylation form is not rigidly controlled for. Now, we are able to analyze the individual contributions from glycosylation state mixtures as well as mixtures of two different IgG subclasses. The mechanistic elements of this model nullify the need for experimentally exploring the numerous immunotherapeutic mixtures that can be created. We can determine the role and weights of effector cells for particular diseases as well as how the combination of activating and inhibitory receptors, distinct immune cell populations, and IgG variations all collectively contribute to target cell depletion.

The combined interactions of all of these features gives rise to the question of which dose or combination of features is optimal for a desired effect. Immunotherapeutic interventions can be rationally designed by looking at results from our model. For example, while the activating and inhibitory ratios have often provided a basis for which IgGs to use, our model recognizes that the activation levels are specific to each cell type AND for each disease model. FcgR1 plays a much higher role in the ITP model in contrast to the melanoma model. This confirms what we know to be true about the importance of KupfferHi cells in the clearance of platelets as these cells express higher levels of FcgR1. 

Broad synergistic trends can also be elucidated without the focus on a specific disease type. As almost all IgG combinations are antagonistic, we learn that maximal depletion requires the blocking other antibodies or the inhibition of their production. For autoimmune diseases, the depletion can be reduced purely through binding competition, without regards to the activating or inhibitory nature of the antibody. Lastly, the most effective mixtures for treatment require an understanding of which effector cell is the target; this model can provide this information when fit to proper disease model training data.

While the mechanistic side can provide insight into the complex interactions between components of the immune system, the data driven approach is what allows for the formulation of models for different disease states. We have explored both melanoma and ITP models here as they are the most easily experimentally verifiable, but models for B-cell depletion, HIV, Ebola, and more are all candidates for fitting a depletion model to it. While the model is able to make predictions about these disease types, the trouble is to get in-vivo data with minimal noise or variation for the fitting of this model. In addition, the effects of complement, neutralization, and other pathways of clearance add to the complexity of the depletion model.

Applying our model to other immune binding events provides a focus for future discoveries.While we applied antibody-bound immune complexes as our ligand, this model extends to other ligand binding events. For example, this model can be applied to targeted drug delivery methods for releasing payloads. Also, this model can be extended to other immune binding mediated events such as cytokine mediated effector functions. As a greater quantitative understanding of the immune system arrises, modeling will become an important factor for reducing the cost and time of experimental tests required for immunotherapies or synthetic immunology.